Now that we added a basic angular frontend and had a brief refresher on angular,
it's time to really make this a mean course and dive into at least the E and the N of mean
so that covered A, E and N thus far I guess, mongodb will also be added soon.
So the E and the N part,
that's express and node. Node as you probably know and as I mentioned in the first course module is a
javascript runtime that runs on the server,
so that means you can execute javascript code with some extra features and some missing features compared
to the browser javascript version but in general still javascript, you can execute that on the server.
You can create the server that listens to requests and sends back responses with it
and you can handle your server side logic with it and express as I also mentioned in the first course
module simply is a framework building up on node,
so you use it to make node development easier, to get a couple of tools out of the box and you don't
have to reinvent the wheel for everything you want to add to your backend. In the big picture of our
mean stack, the server side is on the right here on the slide, you see node and express are on the server
side,
we use the server for our core business logic especially the parts that are too performance intensive
or security relevant and therefore shouldn't be run on the client,
so in the browser and node express is the important backend for our client side, the angular app is
about the user interface.
Now in order to do anything with the data the user enters and to persist it for example or do any transformations,
calculations, to add user authentication, for all this fun stuff, we need a server.
So let's dive into creating our own server with nodejs.